---
layout:      example
title:       "Usage in Browsers"
categories:  example
description: "Browser Usage"
---

# A Note on Browsers

Ciscospark is fully browser compatible but we don't distribute a browserified bundle at this time; you'll need to build the bundle yourself. We use [browserify](http://browserify.org/) internally and [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/) should work as well. We recommend using browserify or webpack for your project but we'll publish a built version sometime in the not too distant future.

# OAuth

Since you don't want to compile your access token into your web app, for everyone to use, you'll need to ask users to enter a username and password (don't worry, we've taken care of the hard parts for you).

Before you can login with OAuth, you'll need to register a new application on the [developer portal](https://developer.ciscospark.com). While you won't be compiling *your* access token into your app, you will need to compile some of these values in.

When you build the sdk, make sure to set the environment variables:
- `CISCOSPARK_CLIENT_ID`
- `CISCOSPARK_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `CISCOSPARK_REDIRECT_URI`
- `CISCOSPARK_SCOPE`

In your application, kick off a login flow with `ciscospark.authorize()`. This will direct the browser to our login service, so make sure to store any state you need in `localStorage` or `sessionStorage` before calling it.

Once the user logs in, we'll redirect them back to your app; the SDK will take care of grabbing the access token from the response and initializing with it.

For now, you're responsible for storing the credentials between pages loads.

```javascript
spark.credentials.on('change:authorization', function() {
  localStorage.setItem('credentials', JSON.stringify(spark.credentials));
});
```

Of course, storing credentials between page loads is only helpful if you read them when the page loads. Use the following snippet to pull credentials out of localStorage and refresh the access token.

```javascript
var credentials = localStorage.getItem('credentials');
if (credentials) {
  spark.credentials.set(JSON.parse(credentials));
}
```

Once you've loadded the cached credentials, the first network request you make will refresh the access token if it's expired. Alternatively, you can force a refresh.

```javacript
spark.refresh({force: true})
  .then(function() {
    // credentials have been refreshed
  });
```
